---
layout: post
title: Something Sublime
cover: night.jpg
tags: [Yale, Summer, Parkour]
---

I’d been hopping indecisively from spot to spot in New Haven all day, looking for somewhere to sit and write. Around closing time at the last place I landed, a coffee shop I frequent at termtime, I thought I’d close the day. Stepping outside, I was caught off guard by the stillness of the street, the city, at night. Summer again. No more college kids romping around in packs, looking for thrills. No bleary-eyed students traveling from (or to?) the library. No cars roaring through the streets. Just silence bathed in soft, streetlamp gold.

I hadn’t changed out of the clothes I wore this morning for parkour training, so I thought I’d drill some precisions for a few minutes at a nearby spot. I set down my backpack and got my body back into sorts after a day of mostly sitting around. Even my arms ached from a few bad landings this morning. I was messing up quite a bit, craning out of a short jump, rebounding from a landing too close to the edge. All the while, this *clomp-clomping* up the street. I broke focus and looked to learn it was a skateboarder, practicing some trick in the desolate street and heading slowly toward me with each heavy, unsuccessful attempt. Eventually, he reached me.

I suddenly couldn’t help but think we were the pariahs that come out at night, when no one’s around to cluck at a thing they don’t really understand. I was working my way, inch by inch, along a widening wheelchair ramp in front of a building, trying to stick the landing every time. And I’d reached the widest part of the ramp I’d ever attempted. I inhaled slowly, and started pulling my arms back in preparation—*clomp*. Right in front of me.

The skater hadn’t moved past this section of road in the last few minutes. He hadn’t said anything either. He just kept at it, slipping, near-missing, exhaling in frustration. Wheeling back around to where he started, having at it again. Striving earnestly for something that, in the eyes of most, had no purpose or validity. Yet here we were, on this golden street, this May night in New Haven, sharing something I didn’t realize we had in common. Enraptured by some piece of the goodness we were trying to grasp. We need no words for a wordless thing.